A brief introduction to the UK longitudinal Linkage Collaboration

The UK Longitudinal Linkage Collaboration is national Trusted Research Environment which systematically and securely links data from more than 20 UK longitudinal studies with research volunteers’ routine health, administrative and environmental records. You can view our animation for a short introduction to our work: An introduction to the UK Longitudinal Linkage Collaboration - YouTube. For more in-depth information about how we operate please read our privacy policy: Privacy Policy | UK Longitudinal Linkage Collaboration (ukllc.ac.uk)

Longitudinal studies gather data about people’s lives over time, often over decades. We’ve linked this with NHS England COVID-19 data. In future we also aim to link to administrative data, such as education and occupation data. We are run by a small team at the Universities of Bristol and Edinburgh, in collaboration with University College London, Secure e-Research Platform, the University of Leicester and Swansea University. We’re part of the COVID-19 Longitudinal Health and Wellbeing National Core Study.

Access to this data will help to answer many important COVID-19 research questions. Studies have data from participants before and during the pandemic. This will help researchers examine the wider impact of health and wellbeing as a result of lockdown measures. As well as the disruption to our health, financial and social systems, it will provide information to improve health services and treatments for people with COVID-19 and long COVID.

Participants’ data is de-personalised, meaning researchers don’t see any information such as name and date of birth. It’s kept safe within a secure computer system where data can be studied, but not copied or taken out of the system. Researchers will be able to find out more about the impact of the coronavirus pandemic than was ever possible before this way of working was set up. Researchers’ findings will provide insights for policy makers and support changes to improve public health. You can view our animation for a short introduction to our work: An introduction to the UK Longitudinal Linkage Collaboration - YouTube. For more in-depth information about how we operate please read our privacy policy: Privacy Policy | UK Longitudinal Linkage Collaboration (ukllc.ac.uk)
